I have repeated it many times, but it is very important to take it into account, and that is that the platforms are not only revolving many sectors, but they are also revolving business management.
There are many business management principles that must be reviewed because the way they compete, the growth strategies, etc. are very different.
Today we are going to talk about the growth strategy of a platform.
I'm going to start by telling you an anecdote. I have an entrepreneur and he has an application called Tecuido that connects health professionals of different types with patients.
It is a marketplace, as there are many, but in this sector, in the health sector.
He told me a long time ago that he saw us with many problems because we did not have users and we did not have professionals.
We could not incorporate the best professionals because there were no users and the users did not interact much because there were not enough professionals.
He told me that he was having problems with his words, the problem of the egg and the hen, and it is a problem that is directly related to the network effect, with the vicious circle that we have talked about before.
If you do not have users, you do not generate value to anyone, to any of the parties, in this case, nor the offer nor the demand, and that prevents you from capturing more users.
This problem is a problem that all platforms have to face when they are born.
I'm going to share with you some advice and suggestions of strategies that some successful companies have followed.
This is not a complete classification, but an analysis from many successful cases that will illustrate the possibilities and solutions to face a challenge as important as starting from scratch and not giving value to anyone.
Unlike a linear model, if you are not a platform, in a linear model it is very simple, you invest in marketing, you capture customers, you earn money with your first customers and you also contribute value to your first customer.
I will start with the advice, the first thing, and before starting with the strategies, the first thing I want you to take into account is that you have to start with a lot more money than if it were a linear model.
If you are not able to raise a lot of money or you are very heavily capitalized, do not start a marketplace or a platform because you will not achieve it, but hey, it's just an advice.
We start with the strategies, the main challenge is to create that offer, there has to be an offer in a marketplace or there has to be content, because if not, you do not contribute any value to the demand or the user.
A possible strategy is to start by creating the offer, be the seller or creator of the content, in the case of Amazon or Zalando, they started as an e-commerce, they were not a marketplace, they did not connect supply and demand, but they simply sold their products.
They captured millions of users and when they already had millions of users, what they did was to become a marketplace and open their e-commerce to other sellers who were attracted by those millions of users.
This is easier to do in an on-demand model, such as Kabyfy, Uber, Mr. Jeff, which connects laundromats and inkwells with users.
You could start with a small place, maybe with your own laundry, you buy the business and offer the service, and you start like this, and when you have many customers, you share that business with other professionals or laundromats.
This same strategy followed Apple, because IOS, the operating system, initially all applications that had been created by Apple, but later what has done is become a marketplace and there are thousands of developers in the world who create applications for this operating system.
By the way, if you did not know, IOS and Android are marketplaces, they are platforms.
Another way that has been given many times to solve this problem and create content is to do it in a false way, for example, a social network or a dating network that creates false profiles.
This can help you temporarily, it can help you gain traction.
Another possible strategy is that if you have a marketplace that connects supply and demand, professionals with individuals, you focus on capturing professionals who, as they are going to make money, are more willing to make the effort to join the platform with the hope that later there will be users.
The user will not have any patience, the user enters and if there is not enough value, the application is downloaded, it stops entering, etc.
But a professional, after all, as his money is being played, if they present him a project that seems attractive, well, he will be willing.
Another way is to initially focus on a segment that is very attractive to others, and this has been done by social networks, for example.
They usually focus, as Facebook did initially, on a segment of the population that is very attractive to the rest.
Facebook began growing with Harvard students, which is the most prestigious university in the United States, so for the rest it was aspirational and it was easier than people from other universities to join the social network.
Another possibility is to financially incentivize one of the sides, and you will understand it with the case of Uber, for example.
Uber began in Seattle and connects drivers with users.
If the drivers do not earn enough money, they stop being hooked, they stop providing the service, etc.
Uber initially subsidized those drivers with economic incentives, even if they did not have all day busy with travel, Uber subsidized them.
They managed to reach a certain critical mass, a sufficient number of drivers in Seattle, which allowed them to offer a good service to travelers, and at that moment it closed the circle.
And this model later extrapolated it to other cities in the United States and then to the whole world.
Another possible strategy is to rely on a platform or network that already has millions of users and that you get traction.
And this is what PayPal did with eBay.
The first success of PayPal was to incorporate eBay, it was its first distribution channel.
There was a time when there were eBay sellers who incorporated the ability to charge with PayPal, and PayPal created a robot that made purchases on eBay.
And then many sellers asked them to pay with PayPal, it was something fictitious, but the thing is that thousands of sellers received requests to incorporate PayPal as a payment system.
And this was a very smart strategy that allowed PayPal to grow very quickly taking advantage of another huge network, a huge platform like eBay.
A strategy that is not always possible but works very well is to grow by offering value to users individually.
That is, you create a technology that serves the user regardless of whether there are more people on the network.
Think for example of Instagram, Instagram initially many people used it as an application to take photos and retouch them, etc.
It managed to attract millions of users without having to rely on the network, or for example OpenTable, which is the leading US platform for reservation of tables in restaurants.
OpenTable initially attracted thousands of restaurants because it offered them a software that allowed the restaurant to manage its reservations, but it was not connected to the users.
So when it already had thousands of restaurants in the US, it opened it to users who could already connect and they already connected to the restaurant user or restaurant client.
As I say, it is not always possible, but it is a very effective strategy because it allows you to grow by forgetting the network effect.
It allows you to fully overcome the challenge of the egg and the hen.
The last tip is that it is easier to grow in a small niche, reach critical mass in a small niche than at the national or international level.
And this is what the red fridge did, which will tell us later José del Barrio.